{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
AUDIO FILE FORMATS :-\
An audio file format is a file format for storing digital audio data on a computer system. \
\
\
TYPES :-\
.aiff - High-quality audio file created using the (AIFF) file format; contains CD-quality audio stored in a non-compressed, lossless format, similar .WAV files; commonly used to burn audio CDs.\
\
.cda - Shortcut to a track on an audio CD; plays the referenced track on the CD when opened; therefore, the CD must be in the CD-ROM drive for the shortcut to work correctly.\
\
.mid - A MID file is a standard midi (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) file used by music authoring and mixing programs as well as MIDI hardware devices. It contains music data, such as what notes are played, when they are played, how long each note is held, and how loud each note is played.\
\
 .mp3 - An MP3 file is an audio file saved in a compressed audio format developed by the Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) that uses "Layer 3" audio compression. It is commonly used to store music and audiobooks with near-CD quality sound (stereo, 16-bit) and roughly 1/10 the size of a .WAV  file.\
\
.mpa - A MPA file is an audio file compressed with MPEG Layer II compression, which reduces the file size while minimally affecting the overall sound quality. It is based on the MPEG-1 audio-coding standard and was later updated for the MPEG-2 specification.\
\
 .ogg - An OGG file is a compressed audio file that uses free, unpatented Ogg Vorbis audio compression. It is similar to an .MP3 file, but sounds better than an MP3 file of equal size, and may include song metadata, such as artist information and track data. OGG files are supported by many software music players and some portable music players.\
\
\
\
\
.ra - Audio file used by RealPlayer, an audio and video streaming program; may reference a streaming audio file online or may contain audio data; can use various codecs to compress audio with variable bit rates; uses a proprietary Real compression algorithm.\
\
.wma - A WMA file is an audio file saved in the Advanced Systems Format (ASF) proprietary format developed by Microsoft. It contains Windows Media Audio and metadata objects such as the title, artist, album, and genre of the track. WMA files are similar to .MP3files and primarily used for streaming music from the web.\
\
\
.vpl - Contains a list of songs to be played with vanBasco's Karaoke Player; includes references to song files, such as Karaoke .(KAR) and MIDI files, but does not include actual MIDI or karaoke data.\
\
\
.wav - A WAV file is an audio file that uses a standard digital audio file format utilized for storing waveform data. It allows audio recordings to be saved with different sampling rates and bitrates and are often saved in a 44.1 KHz, 16-bit, stereo format, which is the standard format used for CD audio.\
\
.aud - Audio file or sound clip compressed using AUD compression; used in computer games developed by Westwood Studios, such as Command & Conquer and Red Alert; also used by Sierra's Laura Bow 2: The Dagger of Amon Ra.\
\
\
.f4a - Audio file created by Adobe Flash, an application used to develop rich Web content; contains MPEG-4 audio data protected with DRM protection; differs from a .F4P file, which contains protection for both audio and video streams.\
\
\
.mka - Audio container format that supports several types of audio compression algorithms; related to the .MKV video format, but only contains audio data.\
\
\
\
.mmm - File created by Music Maker, a music composition program; contains a multitrack arrangement comprised of music clips, transitions, and effects; can combine multiple imported audio formats into a single music composition.\
\
\
.mpu - Audio file saved in the MPEG (Moving Picture Experts Group) Layer 3 Audio Compressed audio format; contains sampled audio that may be compressed using different bit rates; may contain stereo, 16-bit, near-CD quality sound.\
\
\
\
TEXT FILE FORMATS :-\
Text files contain textual data and may be saved in plain text or rich text formats. While most text files are documents created and saved by users, they can also be used by software developers to store program data.\
\
\
TYPES :-\
.doc - A _DOC file is a Microsoft Word document with the .doc extension changed to .doc.It is a .DOC file, which may include formatted text, images, graphs, tables, and charts. DOC files may be renamed to "._doc" files by an email program to prevent the file from being blocked by an email service.\
\
.eml - An EML file is an email message saved by Microsoft Outlook or other email  programs. It may also contain an e-mail attachment, which is a file sent with the message.\
\
.txt - Document containing unformatted  text; used for documents that do not require formatting, which helps reduce the file size; for example, log files and readme files are often plain text documents; they can be opened in both basic text editors and advanced word processing programs.\
\
.rtf - An RTF file is a common text file format that supports rich text. It includes several types of text formatting, such as bold type, italics, different fonts and font sizes, and custom tab settings. RTF files also support objects and images, such as .JPG and .PNG  files, saved within the text file.\
\
.odt - An ODT file is a text document created by various word processors, such as the Writer program included in Apache OpenOffice and LibreOffice. It contains different elements such as text, images, drawn objects, and styles. ODT files are formatted using the OASIS OpenDocument XML-based standard.\
.wpd - A WPD file is a text document created by Corel WordPerfect, a popular word processor. It may contain formatted text, tables, drawn objects, and images. WPD files are stored in a proprietary Corel format, but can be exported to other formats from within WordPerfect.\
\
.log - A LOG file is a log used by various operating systems and programs. It typically contains a plain text log of certain events with their timestamps. LOG files may be created by the operating system to keep track of system events or by a software installation program to list location and names of installed files.\
\
.msg - An MSG file is an email message, contact, appointment, or task created or saved within Microsoft Outlook. It may contain one or more email fields, which includes the date, sender, recipient, subject, and message body, or contact information, appointment details, and one or more task descriptions. MSG files are also compatible with other programs that use Microsoft's Messaging Applications Programming Interface (MAPI).\
\
.abw - Word processing document created with AbiWord, a free word processor developed by the AbiSource community; supports rich text formatting, advanced document layouts, images, tables, lists, and footnotes.\
\
.aww - Document created by Ability Write, the word processor included with the Ability Office productivity suite; similar to a Microsoft Word document and supports text, images, and advanced page formatting.\
.bean - Word processing document created with Bean, a free word processor for Mac OS X powered by the same engine as Apple Textedit ; supports live word count, text styles, graphics, and custom printed margin settings.\
\
.cnm - File created by LexisNexis NoteMap Outline, a program used for making outlines; stores a text document using an outline structure; includes indented topics, subpoints, and other notes; often used in legal environments for case analysis and assessment.\
\
.diz - Plain text file that describes the program or files within a .ZIP archive; typically named "FILE_ID.DIZ," where FILE_ID stands for "file identification" and DIZ stands for "Description in Zip File."\
\
.epp - Contains the image list, thumbnails, and output format for a tala photo project; stores photos for easy printing, emailing, website development, and slideshow creation.\
\
\
\
VIDEO FILE FORMATS :-\
A video file format is a type of file format for storing digital video data on a computer system. Video is almost always stored in compressed form to reduce the file size.\
A video file normally consists of a container containing video data in a video coding format  alongside audio data in an audio coding format. The container can also contain synchronization information, subtitles, and metadata such as title. A standardized (or in some cases de facto standards video file type such as webm is a profile specified by a restriction on which container format and which video and audio compression formats are allowed.\
 \
TYPES :-\
.avi - An AVI file is a file saved in a multimedia container format created by Microsoft. It stores video and audio data that may be encoded in a variety of codecs such as DivX and XviD. AVI files typically use less compression than similar formats such as .MPEG and .MOV.\
 \
.dash - Video file created for high quality video playback on sites such as youtube and Netflix; contains HTTP based segments of media content, such as .MP4 files, that are encoded with different bit rates in order to keep a video playing through changing network conditions.\
 \
.dream - File created by DreamMaker, a program used for creating animated desktop wallpapers in Windows; contains video playback contents as well as settings for triggered visual effects; enhances the user desktop experience.\
 \
.dv - Recorded video file created by a digital video  camera; saved to the camera's DV tape and uses a standard raw format for the DV video; supported by several video editing programs.\
 \
.dvr - Video file created by Windows Media Center, a Windows program that can record and playback television shows; contains the TV program information, the time recorded, and the video itself; saves video encoded in the MPEG-2 format; used for watching recorded TV shows.\
 \
 \
.f4f - Partial .flv video file created and used by Adobe Media Server, a software application used for streaming multimedia content; contains a fragment of an overall Flash video file; used for separating large video files into smaller segments that can be sent to client computers that stream video content.\
 \
.flv - An FLV file is a flash-compatible video file exported by the Flash Video Exporter plug-in (included with Adobe Animate) or other program with FLV file support. It consists of a short header, interleaved audio, video, and metadata packets. The file stores audio and video data in a similar format used by standard Flash files.\
 \
.gvi - Video format used by Google Video Player, a video playback program developed by Google; similar to an .AVI file and encoded in DivX4 with an MP3 compressed audio track; can also be played by VLC if the file does not incorporate DRM encryption.\
 \
.hdv - Format for the recording of high-definition video on DV cassette tape; HDV is a  tape-based format and although a number of solutions for tapeless recording of HDV video are available, these are not covered by the HDV specification.\
 \
 .ivr - Video format developed by RealNetworks for sharing video clips on the Web; may be created by using the "Record" feature in RealPlayer 11 or later; saved in a proprietary format that can only be opened with RealPlayer. \
 \
.mp4 - An MP4 file is a multimedia file commonly used to store a movie or video clip, but may also contain subtitles or images. MP4 is short for MPEG-4 Part 14, which is a container format based on the QuickTime File Format (QTFF) used by .MOV and .QT files\
.\
 \
 \
 \
 \
 \
\
ANIMATION FILE FORMATS :-\
Animation is a dynamic medium in which images or objects are manipulated to appear as moving images. In traditional animation, images are drawn or painted by hand on transparent celluloid sheets to be photographed and exhibited on film. Today most animations are made with computer-generated imagery (CGI).\
\
 \
TYPES :-\
.gif - A GIF file is an image file often used for web graphics. It may contain up to 256 indexed colors with a color palette that may be a predefined set of colors or may be adapted to the colors in the image. GIF files are saved in a lossless format, meaning the clarity of the image is not compromised with GIF compression.\
\
.anm - Contains detailed instructions for a 3D animation; typically references one or more 3D object files which are animated using the directives in the ANM file; used by several older video games as well as newer ones, such as those built for the Crytek CryENGINE.\
\
.dl - A DL file is a data file used by Zoo Tycoon, a video game that allows players to create and manage zoos. It contains data used for exhibits, animals, and other game objects.\
\
.dpx - Kodak raster image format used for transferring film images to a digital medium with no loss of quality; also referred to as a "Digital Moving Picture Exchange Bitmap;" often exported as a frame sequence which contains a series of still images.\
\
.flx - 2D or 3D CAD drawing format used by FelixCAD, a free design and drafting program; used for designing three-dimensional objects and structures; similar to the .DWG format used by AutoCAD.\
\
.pfx - Encrypted security file that stores secure certificates used to authenticate a person or device, such as a computer or web server; requires a password to be opened; can be installed by right-clicking the file and selecting "Install PFX."\
\
.bmp - A BMP file is an uncompressed raster image comprised of a rectangular grid of pixels. It contains a file header (bitmap identifier, file size, width, height, color options, and bitmap data starting point) and bitmap pixels, each with a different color.\
.jpeg - A JPEG file is an image saved in a compressed graphic format standardized by the Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG). It supports up to 24-bit color and is compressed using lossy compression, which may noticeably reduce the image quality if high amounts of compression are used. JPEG files are commonly used for storing digital photos and web graphics.\
\
.tiff - A TIFF file is a graphics container that stores raster images. It may contain high-quality graphics that support color depths from 1 to 24-bit and supports both lossy and lossless compression. TIFF files also support multiple layers and pages.\
\
.pdf - A PDF file is a multi-platform document created by Adobe Acrobat or another PDF application. The PDF format is commonly used for saving documents and publications in a standard format that can be viewed on multiple platforms. In many cases, PDF files are created from existing documents instead of from scratch.\
\
.wpg - A WPG file is a game data file used by Aeria Games IronSight, a first-person military shooter video game. It contains information that describes an aspect of gameplay, such as a weapon, weapon sound, map, character, or character sound.\
\
.png - A PNG file is an image file stored in the Portable Network Graphic (PNG) format. It contains a bitmap of indexed colors and uses lossless compression, similar to a .gif file but without copyright limitations. PNG files are commonly used to store graphics for web images.\
\
.pic - Bitmap image created by IBM Lotus or a variety of other applications; possible programs include Advanced Art Studio, Micrografx Draw, and SoftImage 3D; should not be confused with the .PICT format.\
\
.psd - A PSD file is an image file created by Adobe Photoshop, a professional image-editing program often used to enhance digital photos and create web graphics. It is the native format used to save files in Photoshop. PSD files may include image layers, adjustment layers, layer masks, annotations, file information, keywords, and other Photoshop-specific elements. They are commonly created and shared among graphics professionals.\
\
.raw - A RAW file is an image generated by digital cameras such as Panasonic, Leica, and Casio cameras. It contains uncompressed, raw image data that can be adjusted for exposure and white balance using software that supports the format. RAW files are used for storing unaltered image data as captured by a digital camera's CCD.\
}